In this section we'll learn how Lavell handles files.
But before we do any actual work let's try to understand the lateral obstruction for the file system.
So what you see here is a diagram of the layers of how you would access and by accessing I mean storing
and fetching files.
So let's first consider two examples.
So the first example might be that you might simply want to upload some files and in our case when we
have a blog post application we might want to store let's say our family image for the blog post that
user will upload when he is creating a blog post and then we want this image to be accessible for everyone.
So we want to just display this image but that's not the only use case for files as let's imagine you
have another application for example for handling documents.
So users would have some accounts and then they will upload documents and that might be f or word to
document and then you also like to store them somewhere but not necessarily for everyone to download.
You might only store them so that only people that have certain rights can for example review those
documents do something with them.
So the first layer of this abstraction is the storage for Sade.
So this way you can store and easily access files will get to the details later.
Just so you know the first layer is the storage for Sade.
Now then in Lovell you have some disks configured now disk is an abstract concept.
It doesn't mean physical disk like on your computer.
It's abstract concept.
So a lot of outcomes by default with free disks defined defined and the local disk is the default one.
So those are the names of the disks.
Now take a look on the right.
This is the file systems P2P file which you can find inside the config folder.
It is a configuration for the larval file system.
Abstraction no on this configuration file under the default key you specify which one of those disks
should be default.
So you will see that when you access anything using this storage for say when you do not specify a disk
it will use the default one.
That's why it is important to have the default one defined and the default one is local.
So you configure that using an environment variable.
So on your system you will Adam environment variable called file system driver or alternatively you
will define one inside your dot and file.
So let's immediately change that to public because we would like in our first example we would like
to upload images that will be from thumbnails to blog posts.
Now if we scroll below now you can see the configuration of the disks so we can see that it's an abstract
concept and those names are just names that you give to those disks you can call them anywhere you like.
Now there are free defined the local public and as free you can define more of course.
But how this works is that every disk has some configuration options and the most important of them
is the driver option.
So driver is the final layer of this abstraction and it actually defines where those files will be stored.
When you access the storage facet using certain disk.
So let's say we change the disk.
The default disk to public and the public disk is using the local driver the local means that the files
will be stored inside the folder of your application specifically by default of course inside the storage
folder.
This is also configurable by The Root property so you can see that on both disks that use the local
driver.
There is also our root property and it is fetching this storage directory by using the storage path.
Function well this could also be specified explicitly but in case you are running an application on
couple of servers you might have a common disk for storage so let's not go into details but while it
is it makes sense to fetch this storage path using this function.
Now what that means is for example with the local disk the files would be stored on the storage path
which would be storage up.
So all those files will be stored inside this storage up folder and then on the public they will be
stored inside the storage up slash public.
So basically on the same folder where your application is now as free driver is a different thing.
So it is being used by the as free disk and of course this is amazing as free and you will have to have
an amazing account and will actually be quite comfortable with using amazing to use that.
So we won't cover that but just so you know there are other possibilities and other disks so you might
want to store your files on some FTB or as fh FHP servers or additionally the final driver that is available
out of the box is the Rackspace.
Of course you can define your own drivers.
So let's say you would like to either store or download your files from Dropbox.
You can do that by implementing Dropbox driver.
So why it all makes sense.
So this makes sense to use this storage for Sayed because you get single way to handle your files so
you can use the same code to store files and to fetch files but then you can configure different disks
which is an abstract abstract concept and then this can access files from different kinds of storage
and you will be using just a single interface.
So this gives us plenty of possibilities so let's say you start simply so you store files on your lock
on folder but then your application grows and you need a cloud to store your files you need much more
storage then you can easily switch a configuration for one of your disks.
Let's say the public one and now instead of keeping your files where your application is on your storage
folder all those files can be kept in as free.
Also lets imagine that your application needs files from some outside source so you are let's say not
storing any files but you need to download some files.
There is some information provided for you and lets say that it is provided on S F HDP server then you
will be able to define another disk that will use this as if HDP server and you can handle all that
too.
Using one single storage phosphate and an example could be that you need to copy some files from our
remote server and then you can use storage facilities to both Download those files from as I've aged
to be process them and maybe them then store them on let's say S3 and well thanks to the storage phosphate
you can all do that using are seeing simple and single interface and well not to say that generally
you probably would have to implement this differently to use all those specific storage mechanisms so
there is different BHP functions and code to manage files that are local to your application that are
just on the same physical storage.
Done your up then there is different code to handle at f FTB s if HDP then probably you will need separate
client to handle S3 etc etc..
So if this is not clear yet.
This probably would become clear when we start implementing our first example but just so you know this
is a very powerful mechanism and a behind the scenes.
It's not actually all larval code it is using a third party library called flight system.